My name is Daniel Moniz, and I am a gamer.

Perhaps it is misleading to say that I am today a gamer. I do not have the time
to play the copious amounts of video games of bygone days. Yet I play board
games when I can, and it was not so long ago that I worked, with daily studious
effort, from the Bronze League to Diamond in Starcraft 2.

Nevertheless, I have played games for long enough, and - more importantly -
thought about games enough, that I have been able to extract life lessons from
them. And I don't mean life lessons in the lame sense; for example, "it's
important to use the rules of any system to your advantage", though there is
certainly sense in that. I mean that gaming has given me a perspective.

Perspective is not something to take lightly. If we could change our perspective
on life at will, we modify our priorities, and could therefore change who we are. 
You could finally start flossing, or stop eating meat, or build schools for
children in Africa. Perspective is, as literally as possible, the filter through
which we view our life experiences.

Games have given me what I will call the "gamer's perspective". Viewing life
itself as a game, when healthy to do so, has its benefits. We can not only apply
the skills we have learned from video/board/other games to improving at tasks in
life, but see our successes and failures as lessons. The Real Gamer accepts
defeat and basks in it as a tool for learning. They strive for success, and upon
such success, do not limit themselves to a world where they will always be
successful.

------------

To explain what I mean when I talk about failures, I must explain something
about modern competitive gaming. Games are no longer about leaderboards in
arcade rooms. There are no longer ancient top scores people can only dream of 
reaching, or games that people can only play together when in the same room. 
Modern games use the ELO rating system (used in professional chess) or other.
They determine players' skill levels and ensure that players are always matched
against others of similar ability.

These constraints ensure that players are, on the whole, winning about 50% of
their games. If they are not, they are either working their way up the ladder,
or slipping downwards. Assuming that players tend to find their equilibrium,
this implies that most people win about half of the time. Even the current top
3 players of Starcraft 2 (date: 2012-01-25) win less than 70% of their games. If
you're winning more than that, you're not playing against the right people.


