LOSE NOW, WIN LATER

Welcome back to Life and Gaming. My name is Daniel Moniz, and I am a gamer.

In the first article I said the following: "[Gamers] do not limit themselves to 
a playing field where they will always be successful." This overly general point 
is really about how often people win and lose at games, and more importantly, 
what we get from the losses.

Competitive games are very finite and conclusive things; a player ends with a 
win, a loss, or - allowed by some games - a tie. This allows players to play a 
match and immediately learn a lesson. Though this lesson may be misguided and 
eventually proved incorrect, it can nevertheless be tested immediately in the 
next match. In many cases I have to consider what went wrong and how I can 
prevent the same mistakes from occurring in the future.

People tend to act differently after a match depending on whether they win or
lose. At first glance, this idea makes a whole lot of sense; we should of course
be happy when we win and unhappy when we lose! Or should we? Let's call this
Hypothesis Alpha. We are going to evaluate it in more detail at a later date,
but we will start with a single premise:

A) If I lose a game, I have clearly done something wrong.

Can anything be more intuitive? While not necessarily and strictly true in every
single case, this is nearly a universal truth. If a player loses a game, they
have made at least one mistake. This mistake, if fixed, can act as a learning
tool in future games. Given that players tend to make absolutely oodles of
mistakes in any give game, a loss tends to be a gamer's best source of learning.

In a game like Starcraft II or Supreme Commander it is easy to learn from our
losses due to game replays. For those who have never played a game that allows
for them, a replay can be describe as a the game itself played out in front of
your eyes using recorded actions. This allows game makers to utilize the
standard game interface for viewing replays, the only difference being that you
can't actually take action while watching.

Replays, when equipped with extra tools, can be incredibly useful. For example,
Starcraft II comes equipped with a menu that displays a number of statistics:
number of workers, military units, total income, actions per minute (APM), etc.
A person can watch from any number of player view points and figure out exactly
where their game went wrong.

In short, if your favourite game allows for the use of replays, use them! For
the love of Jebus, do as I say. I watched the fewest replays in all of my 
least successful stages at RTS games. 

If replays are not an option, one must rely on discussion with opponents,
forums, and so on. I have gained a fair amount of information from people I have
never met simply by asking them what I did wrong at the end of a game I lost.
You might be surprised at how much people are willing to help one another.

Losing is a big enough topic that this will be continued in entry #4. Thanks for
reading, and keep on losin'.

Sincerely,

Daniel Moniz, AKA Paragon

This is all I will say about replays at this time. I will consider coming 
back to them if I feel that 


- we learn more from losses than wins

- gamers lose ~50% of their matches




As it turns out, gamers lose approximately 50% of all of their games. Of course 
it averages out this way, but take a look at win-loss ratios on a much more 
granular scale. If a gamer 

-----------------------------

To explain what I mean when I talk about failures, I must explain something
about modern competitive gaming. Games are no longer about leaderboards in
arcade rooms. There are no longer ancient top scores people can only dream of
reaching, or games that people can only play together when in the same room. 
Modern games use the ELO rating system (used in professional chess) or other 
to determine players' skill levels and ensure that they are always matched
against others of similar ability.

These constraints ensure that players are, on the whole, winning about 50% of
their games. If they are not, they are either working their way up the ladder,
or slipping downwards. Assuming that players tend to find their equilibrium,
this implies that most people win about half of the time. Even the current top
3 players of Starcraft 2 (date: 2012-01-25) win less than 70% of their games. If
you're winning more than that, you're not playing against the right people.
