LOSE NOW, WIN LATER

Welcome back to Life and Gaming. My name is Daniel Moniz, and I am a gamer.

In the first article I said the following: "[Gamers] do not limit themselves to 
a playing field where they will always be successful." This overly general point 
is really about how often people win and lose at games, and more importantly, 
what we take from the losses.

Competitive games are very finite and conclusive things; a player ends with a 
win, a loss, or - allowed by some games - a tie. This allows players to play a 
match and immediately learn a lesson. Though this lesson may be misguided and 
eventually proved incorrect, it can nevertheless be tested immediately in the 
next match. In many cases I have to consider what went wrong and how I can 
prevent the same mistakes from occurring in the future.

- we learn more from losses than wins

- gamers lose ~50% of their matches

- learn to find mistakes in your successes



As it turns out, gamers lose approximately 50% of all of their games. Of course 
it averages out this way, but take a look at win-loss ratios on a much more 
granular scale. If a gamer 

-----------------------------

To explain what I mean when I talk about failures, I must explain something
about modern competitive gaming. Games are no longer about leaderboards in
arcade rooms. There are no longer ancient top scores people can only dream of
reaching, or games that people can only play together when in the same room. 
Modern games use the ELO rating system (used in professional chess) or other 
to determine players' skill levels and ensure that they are always matched
against others of similar ability.

These constraints ensure that players are, on the whole, winning about 50% of
their games. If they are not, they are either working their way up the ladder,
or slipping downwards. Assuming that players tend to find their equilibrium,
this implies that most people win about half of the time. Even the current top
3 players of Starcraft 2 (date: 2012-01-25) win less than 70% of their games. If
you're winning more than that, you're not playing against the right people.
